- [Instructor] To this point in this course,
we've looked at data access with Spring
and building service abstractions using IOC.
But so far we have been leveraging console messages
to validate our application code is working.
Now, however, it's time to start putting a face
on our application.
Enter into the picture, the controller.
Before we can get into the controller,
we need to talk about the pattern it's based on.
And that pattern is the model view controller
or MVC pattern for web application UI development.
This is a fundamental and common pattern
for web application development.
The model is your data.
No matter its source, it gets loaded into a model object
that contains all of the dynamic data for the page.
The view is the visual display that is populated,
ultimately from the model.
It often contains placeholders for the dynamic data
mixed with static content as well as the HTML tags.
The controller is the logic portion of this picture.
First and foremost, it wires the view with the model.
But it does more than that.
It also takes the initial web request
based on a defined pattern and then uses various
business logic calls to assemble the model,
then present it with the view.
The controller method can be isolated or abstracted
but it is the entry point for the web call itself
as far as the code that you write.
So let's take a real quick look
at a visual representation of the MVC pattern.
Now, we are going to start with our controller
with a defined web URL, a method with the verb
to respond to.
A web request will come into our application
and the MVC framework as part of whatever technology,
in our case Spring, will pick the controller and the method
on that controller that this web request should respond to.
The controller will then build a model or have one passed
from the framework, as often happens with Spring.
The controller will go about and assemble the data
for the model using various bits of application code,
services, data access, or remote services
that it needs to use.
The controller will then identify
which view we are going to use.
Now, usually both of these are then passed
by the MVC framework to the templating engine,
which merges the model's data elements
with the placeholders in the view.
Finally, the rendered view is returned to the requester.
So now let's discuss the Spring controller
building off of our knowledge of MVC.
A Spring controller is nothing more than a Spring bean
that defines the methods that will handle web requests.
We then annotate this POJO for the servlet mapping,
which defines the URL that this controller responds on.
It can be specific, dynamic, or parental in nature.
I usually stick with a single controller per specific URL
and then utilize dynamic elements in the methods.
The controller itself will respond with a specific method
based on the annotation of the HTTP method and execute.
The controller can then output a view or raw data.
Usually we are dealing with views for web applications
but you could return raw data if your use case requires it.
Spring does not provide a template engine for you
as a default selection.
Spring does however support several template engines,
many of which have starters for auto-configuration
of the application context with Spring Boot.
Thymeleaf is still the most popular
templating engine for Spring.
Thymeleaf provides a DSL for HTML,
leaving raw HTML documents.
These documents are then much easier to style
because your designers can do so asynchronously
to your application development and can do so
without mocking data or running your application itself.
And finally, they leverage those placeholders
for dynamic data such that you can populate them.
But in the template itself, you put in a static value
that needs to be replaced.
Now, the rendering engine then allows for the final product
that is served to you.
So now let's jump in and take a look
at what this looks like.